3p, anyone hungry?
6q, make a "connection" between two cells
7q, hopefully, you'll never see this on a menu at Sonic
9q, a cancer causing gene that is similar, but not identical, to another factor
10q, This gene sounds like it's involved in healing therapy for cut rats.
11p, If certain forms of type 2 diabetes runs in your family, changes in this gene could be at fault.
22q, proof that small losses of genetic information can have big consequences
1p, sort through the genes in this region
1q, Sleeping Beauty pricks her finger
4p, keep "hunting" for this gene's location - it has been mapped
5q, find this next gene STAT!
5q, Like a squirrel stores nuts for winter, so this gene sequesters discarded proteins.
6p, This gene was discovered by a Birmingham researcher. 
9q, this gene is like the adult at the prom who protects your cells from abnormal out-of-control proteins
14q, Have you lost any teeth?
16p, take your vitamins for healthy blood
17q, nerve cell growth regulator
19, Have you ever thought about who actually determined the sequence of the chromosomes like this?
21, in this case, three's a crowd
Xq, Regardless of it's name, this gene doesn't need to be "handled with care".
4p, featured on the TV show "Little People, Big World"
5p, to help find what is missing, first brush up on your French 
8p, a copy for you, a copy for me
10p, The enzyme coded by this gene spends its time sitting in a sac with bad company
22q, this nonheavy protein sequence is important in the immune system
X, three's a crowd inside the cells of these females
6p, providing immunity through the action of many many genes
10q, A vampire with a sweet tooth would be interested in the impact of this gene.
2q, The Dairy industry is thankful for this gene
10q, This gene helps regulate the cell cycle.
12q, it's everywhere
18, in this case, three's a crowd
21q, this gene makes a protein that is just super at destroying oxygen radicals
Xq, waves of color
Y, the master male gene
3q, row, row, row your boat
9q, Are you "able" to travel to Philadelphia?
10q, live long and prosper
11p, don't pour some sugar on me
16q - don't nod off
X, three's a crowd inside the cells of these males
1q, use your noggin
3p, a mother's love for her child is strong, thanks to the effects of this gene
6q, park yourself in front of the sign describing this next gene
7p, allows neurons to chat and transmit information
7q, Contrary to children's movies, this gene doesn't allow foxes to talk. 
8p, a "regular" growth tonic
12p, milk makes muscles strong
17q, serotonin shipper
20p, copper carrier
21q, there's an APP for that
22q, neurotransmitter breakdown
Xp, This gene is the equivalent of a neurotransmitter shredder.
4q, growing, we do it everyday
5q, Shake a leg - go find this gene.
Y, three's a crowd inside the cells of this male
1q, old before their time
2p, the painful truth
4p, Not the star player, but a member of the supporting cast for Huntington disease.
5q, Don't stress out or get inflamed while searching for this gene. 
6p, Let's go surfing now. Everybody's learning how. Come bind DNA now with me.
6q, eleven candidate genes, all in a row
7q, the heat may shock you
9p, the "cycle" of life
14q, seeking T-cell immunity
16p, critical for the renal system
19p, I think Icam, I think Icam....
21q, lysosomal loss leads to sudden seizures
3p, check your weight and blood sugar when visiting this gene
7p, you'll quickly put your finger on the identify of this gene
8q, as the temperature changes, this gene gets busy 
11q, Have you had your blood triglyceride levels checked lately?
12q, changes in this gene may strongly discourage an individual from drinking alcohol 
14q, rhymes with the Beach Boys hit "Surfin' USA"
16q, look for the gene that begins the alphabet song
22q, keeps brain cells talking
Xq, Put on a coat before shutting down.
2p, necessary for a strong immune system
3q, it's good to be first
9p, sweet-n-low, equal, nutrasweet or galactose?
22q, involved in how the body responds to medication
1q, put some muscle into it
2q, look for a gene of titanic proportions
4q, brush your teeth, round and round'
6p, matchmaker, matchmaker, make me a match
11q, Act now!
14q, I can hear your heartbeat.
15q, stand up and stretch
18q, this gene comes from a really super family
19q, expansion is not welcomed
20q, one of the primary components of gelatin is the triple helical protein produced by pig and cow version of this family of genes.
Xp, This gene sets the record for size.
Y, a box of short bones
1q, achoo!
4p, make sure nothing has gone missing
5q, I will survive
7q, till the bitter end
8q, see no evil
10q, blood could be thinner than water
13p, mind the gap
15q, parent-specific silencing
17q, recycling the sweet things in life
19p, this gene product binds "bad" cholesterol
20q, this gene encodes a natural anti-oxidant
X, one is the loneliest number
1p, "eye" spy
3q, blink and wink
5p, this gene maintains the genetic equivalent of aglets - the tiny plastic coverings at the end of a shoelace
6q, regulate, replicate, repeat
7q, fat chance
9p, I flipped over it.
11p, The protein from this gene inhibits other proteins from activating the cell cycle.
12q, mutations in this gene lead to amino acid overload
13, in this case, three's a crowd
14q, molecular scissors
19q, time to make the protein
21q, Channel, No. 6 - an electrifying sensation
Xq, Clots, part 9
1q, What's that buzzing in your ear?
2q, two boxes make a pair
3p, a critical finding for AIDS research
4q, you'll find lots of this protein at your local blood bank
6p, what you might need if your clothes are wrinkled
8p, anchors away!
9q, Just my type
11p, blood red
11q, eye, skin and hair color are impacted by this gene
12p, don't pick at that scab
15q, don't it make my brown eyes blue
15q, chemical mover for the cell
16p, on the hemoglobin highway
16q, redheads have more fun
Xq, Clots, part 8
7q, This gene helps move one component of table salt.
11p, If you have a pulse, thank this gene.
20q, an important part of the DNA recycling process
13q, no protein produced
14q, not pro-body but...
15q, Got extra gangliosides hanging around? Call on this gene!
1p, chills run up your spine
2p, time for some damage control
3p, pack tightly, there's a lot to fit in such a small space
5q, suppress all thoughts of other genes
8q, a limerick: there once was a gene - it's called _____ whose purpose was growing cells quick. A mutation right here, gene activity changed there...and caused cancer to make someone sick.
9q, you might fix a hole in your jeans with this
10q, Studying this gene would be a great Research Experience for Teachers.
12p, switch on - cell growth; switch off - no growth
13q, cell cycle stop
17p, the guardian
17q, cell growth relay system
17q, DNA repair system
18q, here in Rocket City, this gene abbreviation could be misinterpreted as Space Mission Analysis and Design
22q, this region is sometimes involved in a genetic equivalent of mashup
13q, damage control
19q, when individuals have their genome sequenced, this is often the one piece of genetic information they ask not to be told.
