GHRL also produces the protein obestatin. How is it possible for this gene to produce more than one protein?
Why are gap junctions so important to cardiac (heart) muscle cells?
When during development and or early life does the environment begin to influence the outward expression of an individual's genes?
What group was first to use surgery for cancer removal?
Transcription produces which of the following products?
Which of the following are risk factors for developing Type 2 diabetes?
What type of testing is routinely performed to diagnose a 22q deletion?
This gene encodes a transport protein found in the goligi body inside cells.  What is the function of a golgi body? 
What part of the cell would you expect to find microtubules?
Which of the following illustrates the trinucleotide repeat found in the Huntington's Disease gene HTT?
Yeast are single celled organisms. Why are yeast such an important research organism for the study of human genetics?
A mutation in the SQSTM1 gene can cause overproduction of a protein, resulting in Paget Disease. What do you expect to be the result of such a mutation?
Fibrocystin spans the lipid bilayer that composes the cell membrane. What property or properties in the protein allow this to happen?
What is the name of the small organic molecules that link together to form protein?
Transcription factors help regulate the production of RNA transcripts. What is a key characteristic of transcription factors?
Which of the following is a benefit of the current application of genetic and genomic technology to healthcare?
Marie has been diagnosed with neurofobromatosis type 1 (NF1), an autosomal dominant disorder.  She has several benign skin changes and mild learning difficulties.  Marie has a son who also has NF1 and is more severely affected. In addition to benign skin changes, he has developed a tumor on his back and on his optic nerve.  What is the most likely explanation for the different phenotypes in Marie and her son?
What is the term used to describe the highly repetitive sequence found at the end of chromosomes?
During pregnancy there are several screening and diagnostic testing options to help determine whether a baby has Down syndrome or other chromosome anomaly.  Which of the following is an example of a prenatal screening test?
TRUE/FALSE A father has 192 CGG repeats in his FMR1 gene. His daughters will likely inherit an expanded FMR1 gene that causes Fragile X (>200 repeats).
The pedigree shown is for a family affected by achondroplasia. What is the most likely inheritance pattern?
What type of testing is routinely performed to diagnose a 5p- deletion?
Which region of chromosomal DNA is not replicated during the S phase of the cell cycle?
In addition to peroxisomes, what other cellular organelle is a sac-like compartment containing enzymes that break down molecules?
What term best describes the ability of the immune system to create antibodies to foreign invaders within the body?
Which of the following is a factor associated with an increased risk of trisomy?
When might a test of the MHC region be most useful?
Which of the following is a key difference between type 1 and type 2 diabetes?
TRUE/FALSE  Chickens and humans both contain a very similar LCT gene in their genetic code.
The final step in cell division separates the cytoplasm into two new cells. What is this process called?
The functional ubiquitin protein is a combination of three smaller proteins that are bonded together. The assembly and bonding most likely occurs in which of the following cell organelles?
Which of the following is used to definitively diagnose trisomies, such as trisomy 18?
What percentage of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients have the familial (inherited) form?
If a man has red/green colorblindness, from whom did he inherit the mutation?
Sometimes, during meiosis, the SRY region can be transferred from a Y chromosome to a X chromosome.  What process might cause this to happen?
Retinitis pigmentosa can be caused by mutations in more than 60 different genes, including RHO. What is the term used to describe this phenomenon?
TRUE/FALSE  A woman is diagnosed with chronic mylogeneous leukemia (CML) and found to have the "Philadelphia chromosome" in her cancer cells.   Her children are at risk for inheriting the "Philadelphia chromosome" translocation.  
Research efforts are currently underway to treat Alzheimer's disease using which of the following approaches?
Individuals with Type 1 Diabetes are often treated with insulin injections. How is this insulin made?
The diversity of beneficial bacteria living in and on a human is best described as which of the following?
Klinefelter syndrome and other chromosome conditions are caused by errors in human meiosis.  During what phase of meiosis might some of these errors occur?
The majority of genes produce which one of the following macromolecules?
A mutation causes a conformational change in the active site of the oxytocin receptor.  What is the likely outcome of this mutation?
Which of the following forms of therapy for Parkinson's Disease uses electrical pulses programmed by an external device to alleviate symptoms of the disease.
Enzymes catalyze reactions that either build or break down molecules. Which of the following processes best describes the function of dopa decarboxylase?
FOXP2 regulates expression at the DNA level. Which cellular process is being regulated?
In some cases, one gene can produce more than one form of a protein. This runs counter to a hypothesis developed by which of the following scientists?
Which of the following famous individuals is thought to have bipolar disorder?
TRUE/FALSE Charles Darwin and Gregor Mendel were contemporaries, meaning the lived during the same time period. 
How do PNRP prion disease-causing mutations impact the prion protein?
The amyloid beta precursor protein can best be described as which of the following types of membrane proteins?
What percentage of the human genome varies between two unrelated individuals?
The monoamine oxidase A enzyme is located in the mitochondrial outer membrane.  What function does a mitochondria provide for a cell? 
Which of the following best describes the products of mitosis?
Fish are often used as a model organism for human genetics. Why are fish useful to genetic researchers?
TRUE/FALSE The error that results in XYY must occur during paternal meiosis.  
In addition to progeria, mutations in LMNA are associated with several other genetic conditions and a wide variety of phenotypes.  What is the most likely explanation for this phenomenon?
What was the purpose of the Human Genome Project?
Huntington Disease (HD) is a dominantly inherited condition. Which of the following would you expect to see in a family tree with members affected by Huntington disease?
Why do proteins like NR3C1 need other proteins to facilitate their entry into the nucleus?
There are four levels of protein structure: primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary. Which level is responsible for creating the DNA binding region found in a transcription factor protein?
What is the difference between GWAS and whole genome sequencing?
Where in the cell would you expect to find a large number of chaperone proteins involved in the proper folding and packaging of proteins?
CDKN2 plays an active role in arresting cell growth in either G1 or G2 of the cell cycle. If a cell is arrested in G2 due to irreparable DNA damage, what is the most likely outcome for the cell?
Genetic diversity occurs in a number of different ways including the ability to randomly select DNA segments from a gene to use in the translated protein. Which of the following words best describes this process?
Paul was just diagnosed with PKD1, an autosomal dominant condition.  What is the chance that both of Paul's sons will be affected with PKD1? 
What is the term used to describe the outside protein covering of a virus?
TRUE/FALSE Some genes do not need a promoter to be transcribed.
Many complex diseases like type 2 diabetes and obesity most often result from which of the following?
There are four levels of protein structure: primary, secondary, tertiary and quaternary. Which level is responsible for creating the DNA binding region found in the zinc-finger structure?
TRUE/FALSE Environmental stresses, like temperature, change gene activity by altering the DNA sequence of genes.
How are recurrence risks calculated for multifactorial conditions, like coronary artery disease?
Usually two traits are inherited together but, on occasion, an offspring will only inherit one of those traits. Why?
Alpha 1 antitrypsin is able to inhibit the action of some enzymes by removing part of the amino acid chain that gives the enzyme its shape and structure. What type of enzyme action is this?
The protein encoded by ABCC11 uses ATP to move substances in and out of cells.  This is an example of what type of process?
What type of genetic test can determine the specific nucleotide base (A,C,T or G) simultaneously at thousands of points in the genome?
The process of X-inactivation allows genes from only one X chromosome to be expressed in each cell. Which of the following describes the pattern of X-inactivation?
Antibiotics would be an effective method for treating which of the following?
Which of the following characteristics apply to a genetically inherited condition?
Galactose, when combined with glucose, makes which of the following carbohydrates?
A double-stranded segment of DNA contains a total of 100 nucleotides. It has 20 cytosines. How many Thymines would you expect to find?
TRUE/FALSE  The ACTA1 gene is found in neuron cells within the cerebrum of the brain.
Titin is made up of 34,423 amino acids. How many codons are present in the mRNA transcript?
TRUE/FALSE A mutation in ENAM would have effects on both baby teeth and adult teeth.
Where would you expect the protein product of HLA-DQB1 to be found?
Actin is one of two major skeletal muscle protein involved in contraction. What is the other?
Myosin and actin proteins create which unique feature in cardiac and skeletal muscle cells?
The shaded individuals in the accompanying pedigree have symptoms of the autosomal dominant condition Marfan syndrome.  The indicated individual is concerned about her risk for the condition.  Based on the pedigree, what is the chance she will develop the condition if her father's genotype is unknown?
Duplications in the TNRFSF11A gene are associated with a rare type of bone disease.  DNA duplications result in DNA sequences that are longer than typical.  What technique might you use to determine the length of a DNA segment?
Repeat expansions in the DMPK gene causes changes in chromatin structure. Chromatin functions to package DNA in the nucleus. Other than DNA, what molecule is found in chromatin?
During protein synthesis, the RNA is read in which of the following patterns?
If all 2.4 million bases of the dystrophin gene were used to create a protein, how many amino acids would the protein have?
Loss of one copy of the SHOX gene reduces the amount of SHOX protein produced by the body.  What effect might you expect this to have on an individual?
Which of the following would you most likely find associated with a bacterial cell?
Which of the following is the most likely explanation for why a chromosomal deletion would have significant and sometimes severe consequences?
A myelin sheath protects the motor neuron cells that connect to muscles. What is the name of the cells that produce and are part of that myelin sheath?
Being able to taste the bitter chemical PTC is dominant to non-tasting. In a family where neither parent can taste PTC, what is the probability that they will have a child that can taste PTC?
On what date did James Watson and Francis Crick publish the results of their study of the double helix structure of DNA?
How might a physician use a patient's CYP2C9 genotype in a clinical setting?
Mendelian patterns of inheritance are established by which of the following processes?
Imprinting is one example of how genes can be regulated without changing the DNA sequence. What is the collective term used to describe this phenomenon?
In 2006, the FDA approved the first treatment for Pompe disease.  How does this treatment work?
The protein encoded by this gene is involved in cholesterol homeostasis in the body. Which of the following is a "good" function of cholesterol in the body?
The enzyme encoded by this gene helps create an antioxidant that protects against free radicals. What are free radicals?
Oogenesis begins during which phase of a female's life cycle?
The shaded individuals in the accompanying pedigree have been diagnosed with Stargardt disease, an autosomal recessive retinal condition.  What is the chance that the indicated child will be a carrier? 
This gene has only one exon.  What does this mean?
Why is it important to maintain telomere length?
DNA is replicated through a semi-conservative process.  What is the purpose of semi-conservative replication?
The following nucleotide sequence is found on the coding strand of the leptin gene: gtcttaccag.  What is the complementary sequence?
Which of the following describes a balanced chromosome rearrangement?
Imprinting is accomplished by which of the following?
Newborn testing for PKU occurs nationwide? Why is this gene a good candidate for newborn screening?
Which of the following news headlines is correctly worded according to current genetic knowledge?
A mutation in the PSEN1 gene has been implicated in up to 50% of autosomal dominant cases of early-onset Alzheimer’s disease. Although this condition shows autosomal dominant inheritance, why is PSEN1 not implicated in all cases?
Which of the following types of molecules make up part of the ribosome structure?
Which of the following scientists helped determine that DNA is the hereditary molecule inside cells?
The accompanying pedigree is for a family with hemophilia B.  What is the most likely inheritance pattern for this condition?
Which of the following organisms is the actual cause of the symptoms for malaria?
Which of the following best defines the concept of a syndrome?
Why is it necessary for HIV virus particles to have an entry point  into cells like the protein made by CCR5?
Which of the following might be an appropriate nickname for Albumin?
Hemochromatosis is an autosomal recessive condition. What is the probability that two individuals that are heterozygous will have a child that is at risk for hemochromatosis?
Mature red blood cells lack which of the following cellular structures?
Maria has blood type AB and her son has blood type B and is homozygous. Which of the following is most likely the biological father?
A single nucleotide change in the HBB gene causes sickle cell anemia. This mutation leads to symptoms by which of the following mechanisms?
Complex traits such as eye color, skin tone, or height are usually a result of which of the following?
If a woman is heterozygous for a mutation in the VWF gene and has a child with a man that has no family history of von Willebrand's disease, what is the probability that their next child will be a boy without von Willebrand's disease?
Although this does not occur in OCA2, some genes have the ability to move throughout the genome and are called 'jumping genes' or transposons. Who is credited with the discovery of transposons?
The cell membrane can be best described as...
Which of the following is a benefit of being a carrier for alpha thalassemia?
TRUE/FALSE Hair color is controlled by a single gene, MC1R.   Brown hair is dominant over red hair.
John is a 55 year old man who has been diagnosed with hemophilia A.  How many of John's four daughters would you expect to inherit his F8 mutation?
Given the pedigree above, what is the chance that the couple's next child will have cystic fibrosis?
Which of the following terms is used to describe the sudden, uncontrollable, and dangerous heart rhythm that may develop in people with Long QT syndrome?
Ashanti DeSilva was the first person to be treated for ADA deficiency (SCID) by which of the following methods?
How do MiRNA genes redefine the classic definition of a gene?
Louis Pasteur was a pioneer in the fields of microbiology and immunology.  He is well known for doing the first human vaccine trial for which of the following diseases?
HEXA encodes part of an enzyme that breaks down GM2 gangliosides.  In what part of the cell would you expect to find this enzyme? 
What vitamin, when taken during pregnancy, reduces the risk for neural tube defects.
MSH2 is a tumor suppressor gene. How do tumor suppressor genes regulate cancer development?
If a cell in the kidney loses the ability to control the speed and accuracy of the cell cycle, which of the following would you expect to occur?
Cancer can be attributed to which of the following factors?
A human body cell with 46 chromosomes undergoes three rounds of mitosis.  How many cells result from these divisions, and how many chromosomes are there in each cell?
The term cancer is credited to which of the following individuals?
The nerves that require RET for development belong to which of the following components of the nervous system?
TRUE/FALSE KRAS testing is used to help determine appropriate medication for people with colorectal cancer. 
In which of the following stages of the cell cycle does the majority of the genetic material replicate itself?
From which of the following are you most likely to obtain DNA damage?
What tissue would one test to determine if a cancer has an ERBB2 amplification?
Which of the following is a "red flag" that a cancer might be part of an inherited cancer syndrome, like Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer?
SMAD4 mutations have been associated with both sporadic and inherited forms of cancer. For a mutation in SMAD4 to be passed on to the next generation in which of the following cell types must it be present?
What percentage of patients with chronic mylogeneous leukemia (CML) have the 9;22 translocation?
BRCA2 mutations are associated with Hereditary Breast and Ovarian Cancer (HBOC).  Which of the following statements regarding HBOC is correct for males?
TRUE/FALSE An individual with a mutation in the APOE gene will develop Alzheimer's disease during their lifetime. 
