Ghrelin appears to have two very different functions: 1) maintaining the health of neurons in the brain, especially as it relates to learning and memory and 2) a hunger hormone that increases food intake and fat storage.
Six connexin molecules form a connexon channel. Several connexons cluster together to form a gap junction.
This gene was named after a popular video game character because mutations in the fruitfly version of the gene lead to a pointy embryo that resembles a hedgehog.
This gene also plays a key role in reprogramming cells to become induced pluripotent stem cells, which resemble embryonic stem cells but are instead formed from adult skin. These cells are the subject of a great deal of research. HudsonAlpha faculty member Neil Lamb helped identify this gene as a risk factor in certain forms of colorectal cancer.
When DNA in active genes is damaged, the enzyme that carries out transcription (RNA polymerase) gets stuck, and the process stalls. Researchers think that the CSB protein helps remove RNA polymerase from the damaged site, so the DNA can be repaired. The CSB protein may also assist in restarting gene transcription after the damage is corrected.
Four KCNJ11 proteins, together with four other membrane proteins known as SUR proteins, form an ATP sensitive potassium channel. In the beta cells of the pancreas, the open or closed state of the channel is regulated by ATP levels. High ATP amounts will close the channels. This begins a process which releases insulin from the pancreas.
Most people with 22q11.2 deletion syndrome are missing a sequence of about 3 million DNA building blocks (base pairs) on one copy of chromosome 22 in each cell. Researchers are working to identify all of the genes that contribute to the features of this syndrome. The loss of a gene called TBX1 is probably responsible for many of the syndrome's characteristic signs (such as heart defects, a cleft palate, distinctive facial features, hearing loss, and low calcium levels).
The SORT1 protein transports other proteins inside the cell from the golgi body to the lysosomes and endosomes. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Greg Cooper helped identify the link between this gene and cholesterol levels.
The SDCCAG8 protein is also involved in proper development of clila, tiny hairlike projections on human cells that help the cell interact with and respond to the surrounding environment. Specifically, the protein appears to help regulate the centrosome and basal body, the cellular organelles that produce microtubules for the mitotic spindle and cilia support. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Shawn Levy sequenced the exons of this gene to identify mutations associated with a pediatric kidney disease.
One region of the HTT gene contains a particular DNA segment known as a trinucleotide repeat (a specific sequence of the DNA that appears many times in a row). Among individuals with Huntington disease, the repeat occurs many more times than usual, leading to an elongated protein. This elongated protein is broken into smaller fragments that are toxic and disrupt the normal function of neurons, eventually leading to the death of the neurons. Rick Myers, Director of HudsonAlpha was involved in the race to map the location of this gene as his very first project related to human genetics.
This gene spans 25,000 basepairs (not quite half an inch on this pathway) and produces a protein with 888 amino acids. HudsonAlpha researcher Sara Cooper helped characterize the effects of small dietary molecules on statins in both yeast and human cells.
The SQSTM1 protein is also involved in breaking down old bone and creating new bone to replace it, a process called bone remodeling. Auburn University researcher Mike Wooten is exploring the role of this gene in neurodegenerative disorders like Alzheimer's disease.
The protein encoded by this gene is called fibrocystin, It spans the membrane of kidney, liver and pancreas cells. Based on its structure, it may interact with molecules outside the cell, receiving signals that help the cell respond to its environment. UAB scientist Lisa Guay-Woodford was the first to clone and identify this gene.
TorsinA is found in the space between the nuclear membrane and the endoplasmic reticulum. University of Alabama researchers Guy and Kim Caldwell are studying the potential of this gene to protect neurons from disorders such as Parkinsons.
This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors. The nine PAX genes play a critical role in the formation of tissues and organs during embryonic development. HudsonAlpha director Rick Myers was part of a team that identified PAX9 mutations as a cause of molar hypodontia (missing molars).
Mutations in VKORC1 lead to a disorder characterized by a tendency to bleed. While it can be fatal, it is usually reversed taking vitamin K tablets. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Greg Cooper was part of the group that linked this gene to warfarin dosing.
Neurofibromatosis is characterized by non-cancerous tumors called neurofibromas. With an incidence of 1 in 3500 individuals, neurofibromatosis is possibly the most common inherited disorder caused by a single gene. UAB physician-scientist Bruce Korf is internationally regarded as a leading authority on neurofibromatosis.

A small percentage of people with Down syndrome have an extra copy of chromosome 21 in only some of the body's cells. In these people, the condition is called mosaic Down syndrome. Down syndrome can also occur when part of chromosome 21 becomes attached (translocated) to another chromosome during the formation of eggs and sperm or very early in fetal development. Affected people have two copies of chromosome 21, plus extra material from chromosome 21 attached to another chromosome. Individuals with this genetic change are said to have translocation Down syndrome. HudsonAlpha faculty member Neil Lamb focused on trisomy 21 for his Ph.D. dissertation.
A three nucleotide (CGG) repeat is found in the 5' untranslated region of the gene. Normally there are 6-53 copies of this repeat but in some families the repeat number expands when passed from mother to child. An expansion to 200 or more repeats shuts off the activity of the FMR1 gene, leading to the symptoms of fragile X. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Devin Absher worked on FMR1 for his Ph.D. dissertation.
One end of the FGFR3 protein projects outside the cell, while the remainder crosses the cell membrane into the inside of the cell. When growth factors outside the cell attach to the FGFR3 protein, the protein triggers a cascade of chemical reactions inside the cell. These signals instruct the cell to develop and function in specific ways.
Like most deletions, the majority of cases of cri-du-chat syndrome are not inherited. The deletion generally occurs as a random event either during egg or sperm formation or early in fetal development. Affected people typically have no history of the disorder in their family.
Before cells divide, they must copy all of their chromosomes. The copied DNA from each chromosome is arranged into two identical structures, called sister chromatids. The ESCO2 protein plays an important role in establishing the glue that holds the sister chromatids together until the chromosomes are ready to separate.
Mutations in the PHYH gene have been found to cause more than 90 percent of all cases of Refsum disease. The mutations reduces the activity of the enzyme, which prevents the breakdown of phytanic acid in peroxisomes. The accumulation of phytanic acid is toxic to cells.
Part of the IGL@ region includes more than 40 different DNA segments that can be combined in a number of different ways. In the bone marrow, each developing B cell randomly selects and combines a few of these segment, creating a unique DNA sequence that lets the cell recognize one specific antigen (like bacteria or pollen). The multiple combinations of segments means the body can recognize hundreds of thousands of antigens, leading to a strong immune system. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Jian Han is studying this gene region to explore the diversity in the human immune system and it's impact on health.
This condition occurs in about 1 in 1,000 newborn girls. Five to 10 girls with triple X syndrome are born in the United States each day.
MHC proteins act as signposts that help alert the body's immune system if foreign molecules are present inside a cell.
In addition to the link between this gene and type 2 diabetes, a frameshift mutation has been implicated in colorectal cancer.
In most human populations, the LCT gene is only active during infancy and early childhood. A variation in the gene, found primarily among individuals of European descent, continues to produce lactase into adulthood. 
This protein is part of the complex that regulates two key transitions in the cell's growth cycle: the G1/S switch, just before the cell replicates its DNA, and the G2/M shift that signals the beginning of mitosis and cell division.
Ubiquitin serves as a signal to move unwanted proteins into specialized cell structures known as proteasomes, where the proteins are degraded.
Individuals with trisomy 18 often have a low birth weight; a small, abnormally shaped head; a small jaw and mouth; clenched fists with overlapping fingers; heart defects; and abnormalities of other organs. Due to the presence of several life-threatening medical problems, many infants with trisomy 18 die within their first month.
Superoxide radicals are byproducts of normal cell processes, particularly energy-producing reactions that occur in specialized structures called mitochondria.
The OPN1LW gene produces a photopigment sensitive to light at the red end of the visible spectrum while OPN1MW (medium wave sensitive) produces a photopigment is more sensitive to yellow/green light at the middle of the visible spectrum. Most people have one copy of the OPN1LW gene and one or more copies of the OPN1MW gene. The majority of red-green color blindness result from structural rearrangements of the long- and middle-wavelength-sensitive pigment genes that delete the MW genes or produce a hybrid pigment gene containing parts of the LW and MW sequence. 
SRY codes for a transcription factor - a protein that attaches (binds) to specific regions of DNA and helps control the activity of genes associated with maleness. This gene has no introns. Loss of function mutations in SRY can result in a fetus that develops as a female despite having a Y chromosome.
The RHO gene produces a pigment protein in the retina of the eye that is partly responsible for vision
Under normal conditions, the ABL1 protein helps regulate cell division and is very tightly controlled by other molecules. The translocation event fuses part of the BCR (breakpoint cluster region) to the ABL gene. The abnormal "fusion" protein is continuously active, which speeds up the frequency of cell division and out of control cell growth.
Recent research suggests the sirtuin protein may also help control production of proteins that lead to amyloid plaques found in Alzheimer's disease patients.
Insulin is a hormone that helps regulate carbohydrate and fat metabolism in the body. Insulin causes liver, muscle cells to take up glucose from the blood and store it as glycogen. In the absence of insulin, glucose is not taken up from the blood and the body uses stored fat as an energy source.
The NOD2 protein is involved in recognizing certain bacteria in the intestine and stimulating the immune system to respond properly. The NOD mutations are thought to prevent the protein from recognizing the bacteria, allowing them to grow unchecked and invade cells lining the intestine. An abnormal immune response to these bacteria may lead to chronic inflammation and the digestive problems characteristic of Crohn disease.
Some males with Klinefelter syndrome have the extra X chromosome in only some of their cells; in these individuals, the condition is described as mosaic Klinefelter syndrome. Individuals with mosaic Klinefelter syndrome may have milder signs and symptoms depending on how many cells have an additional X chromosome.
The protein produced by this gene is involved in neuron growth and during fetal development. In the adult brain, the DISC1 protein is important in incorporating newly formed neurons into the existing brain structure.
The oxytocin receptor also regulates contraction of the uterus during childbirth and production of milk from the mammary glands.
Parkin plays a role in the cell machinery that breaks down unwanted proteins by tagging them with molecules called ubiquitin. Ubiquitin serves as a signal to move unwanted proteins into specialized cell structures known as proteasomes, where the proteins are degraded. It is not clear how mutations in this gene lead to Parkinson disease.
In fruitflies, variation in the DNA sequence of this gene is associated with length of life.
Mutations in FOXP2 cause a serious speech and language disorder.
During the process of protein creation, several forms (isoforms) of neuregulin can be created. These isoforms differ in their structure and in which tissue of the body they are produced.
The channels encoded by this gene are particularly important for the normal function of heart cells. They open and close at specific times to control the flow of calcium ions into cardiac muscle cells. In doing so, the calcium channels signal the cardiac muscle to contract and help maintain the heart's normal rhythm. 
The transporter protein spans the cell membrane 12 times. There is a polymorphism (variant) in the promoter of this gene. One version leads to lower transcription levels and less overall protein being produced. Several studies have found links between the polymorphism and depression, anxiety and post-traumatic stress disorder.
Although the vast majority of prion disease cases are sporadic, 10-15% occur from inherited mutations in the PNRP gene.
Amyloid precursor protein is cut by enzymes to create smaller fragments. One such fragment has growth-promoting properties and may play a role in the formation of neurons in the brain both before and after birth. A different fragment, called amyloid beta, can accumulate in the brain as clumps called amyloid plaques. These plaques are characteristic of Alzheimer's disease and may contribute to the death of neurons and the clinical symptoms of this disorder.
Two versions of this enzyme are made from the COMT gene. The longer form remains attached to the cell membrane and is chiefly produced by nerve cells in the brain. Other tissues, including the liver, kidneys, and blood, produce a shorter form of the enzyme that helps control the levels of certain hormones.
Some mutations in this gene produce very low levels of MAOA. This has been linked to increased impulsive and aggressive behavior, although the over number of such cases is very small.
This 53 amino acid protein initiates cell division by binding to the epidermal growth factor receptor.
A mutation in PITX1 has been linked to one form of clubfoot, a common hindlimb malformation. Rick Myers, the Director of HudsonAlpha, helped show that mutations in this gene affect the development of pelvic bones in fish.
This condition occurs in about 1 in 1,000 newborn boys. Five to 10 boys with 47,XYY syndrome are born in the United States each day.
Lamin protein are found next to the inner membrane that surrounds the nucleus and are thought to be involved in stability of the nucleus, gene activity and structure of the chromosomes. Chris Gunter (former HudsonAlpha faculty scientist) helped oversee the publication of the paper describing the discovery of this gene.
Mutations in this gene are associated with early onset obesity, adrenal insufficiency, and red hair pigmentation. UAB scientist Robert Kesterson, studies the function of this gene.
Among other functions, this protein adds ubiquitin molecules to Hutingtin (the protein involved in Huntington disease). Ubiquitin serves as a signal to move unwanted proteins into specialized cell structures known as proteasomes, where the proteins are degraded. UBE2K is thought to play a role in the development of the clinical symptoms of the disorder. UA Huntsville researcher Pam Twigg studies the structure and function of the protein encoded by this gene
Cortisol is a natural hormone released during times of stress that is also used by the body to treat inflammation. The NR3C1 protein normally is found in the cytoplasm of the cell. When bound by cortisol, the NR3C1 protein travels into the nucleus and in turn binds the DNA at specific sequences. As a result, some genes are activated and others are repressed. HudsonAlpha Director Rick Myers and Postdoctoral fellow Tim Reddy have examined the specific genes that are regulated by NR3C1.
The SRF protein binds DNA at the promoter region of genes that are to be activated. The specific binding sequence is CC[6(A/T)]GG, where [6(A/T)] represents six nucleotides in any combination of Adenine and Thymine. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Sara Cooper has identified several genes that are activated by SRF.
Association studies are often the first step in identifying disease-related genes. Additional work is underway to determine if one of the eleven genes in this region (or a previously undiscovered gene) is responsible for the association with breast cancer. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Shawn Levy performed the genome-wide testing for this study.
During times of chemical stress, chaperones help prevent protein breakdown by maintaining their proper structure and assisting in the protein folding process. University of South Alabama researcher William Gerhoffer studies the role of this gene in maintaining smooth muscle structure and function.
By incorporating or ignoring a specific region of the DNA sequence, this gene can produce two distinct proteins. Both proteins share a common role in regulating when the cell divides. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Devin Absher is performing detailed sequencing of this gene as it relates to cancer.
Part of the T-cell receptor alpha gene includes many different DNA segments that can be combined in a number of unique ways. In the thymus, each developing T cell randomly selects and combines a few of these segment, creating a unique DNA sequence that lets the cell recognize one specific antigen (like a bacteria or pollen). The multiple combinations of segments means the body can recognize hundreds of thousands of antigens, leading to a strong immune system. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Jian Han is studying this gene region to explore the diversity in the human immune system and its impact on health.
The protein encoded by this gene is involved in calcium regulation and renal tubular development.  Mutations in this gene cause autosomal dominant polycystic kidney disease type 1. HudsonAlpha faculty member Neil Lamb sequenced this gene in affected families to identify their disease-causing mutations.
This cell membrane protein is also a major point of entry for rhinovirus, cause of the common cold. UAB researcher Dan Bullard is studying the role of this gene in the development of inflammatory diseases such as multiple sclerosis.
A 15-18 nucleotide repeat is found in the promoter region of this gene. Most patients with the EPM1 epilepsy have a normal protein sequence but an abnormally large number of repeats. This expansion dramatically reduces the activity level of the gene, producing very little mRNA and cystatin protein. This gene was identified and described by HudsonAlpha director Rick Myers.
PPARG activates genes that stimulate cells to store fat. Mice engineered to lack this gene do not form fat cells, even when fed a high fat diet.
The GLI3 protein is called a zinc-finger protein. A portion of the amino acids fold into a finger shape that holds a zinc atom in place. Zinc finger proteins bind specific sequences of DNA, activating the process of transcription.
This gene regulates the action of heat shock proteins, which help the cell function during periods of environmental stress. In addition to changes in temperature, stress can result from infection, inflammation, exercise, exposure of the cell to toxins, starvation and lack of oxygen. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Sara Cooper identified many of the genes regulated by HSF1.
Apolipoproteins bind to lipids (substances such as fat and cholesterol) to form lipoproteins. The lipoproteins transport the lipids through the lymphatic and circulatory systems.
Doctors sometimes prescribe a drug called disulfiram to treat chronic alcoholism. This drug essentially inhibits the ALDH2 enzyme and causes severe side effects if alcohol is consumed.
Alpha-1 antitrypsin, protects the body from a powerful enzyme called neutrophil elastase. Neutrophil elastase usually helps fight infection, but can attack normal lung tissues if not controlled by alpha-1 antitrypsin. Mutations in the SERPINA1 gene lead to a shortage of alpha-1 antitrypsin or an abnormal form of the protein that cannot control neutrophil elastase. Consequently, neutrophil elastase destroys lung cells. Smoking or exposure to tobacco smoke accelerates this damage.
Human earwax consists of wet and dry types. Dry earwax is frequent in East Asians, whereas wet earwax is common in other populations. A single DNA change in the ABCC11 gene is responsible for determination of earwax type. Wet earwax is inherited in an autosomal dominant manner.
The SHANK3 protein plays a role in the functioning of synapses - the connections between nerve cells where cell-to-cell communication occurs. This protein is also involved in the formation and maturation of dendritic spines, which are small extensions from the nerve cells that improve communication.
In mammals, males receive one copy of the X chromosome while females receive two copies. To prevent female cells from having twice as many gene products from the X chromosomes as males, one copy of the X chromosome in each female cell is inactivated.
Part of the IGK@ region includes more than 40 different DNA segments that can be combined in a number of different ways. In the bone marrow, each developing B cell randomly selects and combines a few of these segment, creating a unique DNA sequence that lets the cell recognize one specific antigen (like bacteria or pollen). The multiple combinations of segments means the body can recognize hundreds of thousands of antigens, leading to a strong immune system. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Jian Han is developing sequencing methods to examine the health and history of a person's immune system.
Alcaptonuria is a rare disorder where a person's urine turns a dark brownish-black color when exposed to air.
Galactose is primarily part of a larger sugar called lactose, which is found in all dairy products and many baby formulas. The GALT enzyme converts galactose into glucose, the main energy source for cells.
There are approximately 60 CYP genes in humans and the enzymes the encode account for 70-80% of enzymes involved in drug  metabolism (breakdown). Variants in these genes determine how quickly the drugs are metabolized. If the drug is broken down slowly, it stays active in the body longer and less is needed to get the desired effect. If however, it is metabolized quickly, a higher does might be needed.
Actin proteins are important for cell movement and the tensing of muscle fibers (muscle contraction). The protein made by this gene is important in the muscles used for movement. Within skeletal muscle cells, this protein is an essential component of structures called sarcomeres.
Within muscle cells, titin is an essential component of structures called sarcomeres, where it interacts with other muscle proteins, including actin and myosin. Titan also contains a spring-like region that allows muscles to stretch.
Enamel is the hard, white material that forms the protective outer layer of each tooth. It is primarily composed of mineral-containing crystals, organized into bundles that give enamel its strength and durability. Although the exact function of the enamelin protein is not well understood, it appears to play a key role in the formation and growth of these crystals.
Certain alleles of this gene increase the risk of developing narcolepsy, while other alleles increase the risk of autoimmune disorders like type I diabetes or celiac disease.
 This gene is only active in skeletal muscle. It is localized to the Z-disc, where it helps to anchor the actin filaments. One variant of this gene results in no protein produced, which impacts the performance of the muscle surprisingly little.
About 4,000 bases separates the alpha and beta heavy chain genes. The heavy chains each have two parts: a head region and a tail region. The head region interacts with actin, a protein that is important for cell movement and shape. The long tail region interacts with other proteins, including the tail regions of other myosin proteins.
In addition to supporting connective tissues, microfibrils surround certain growth factors, which keeps them inactive. When released from microfibrils, these growth factors are activated and impact the growth and repair of tissues throughout the body. In Marfan syndrome the reduced amount of fibrillin weakens the microfibrils, leading to improper release of the growth factors. This results in many of the symptoms of Marfan syndrome, including increased height, elongated fingers and toes and an armspan that exceeds their body height.
During bone remodeling, the RANK protein encoded by this gene helps direct the formation and function of specialized cells called osteoclasts, which break down bone tissue. RANK is located on the surface of immature osteoclasts, where it receives signals that trigger these cells to mature and become fully functional.
The normal function of this protein is still unknown. It appears to be active in muscle, heart, and brain cells.
Type IX collagen is a key component of cartilage and found in the trachea, the tip of the nose and at the end of bones where joints are formed. Unlike other connective tissues, cartilage does not contain blood vessels. As a result, damaged cartilage heals very slowly and usually creates a great deal of scar tissue. New bioengineering approaches are using cells in the laboratory to grow artificial cartilage.
In skeletal and cardiac muscles, dystrophin is part of a group of proteins that work together to strengthens muscle fibers and protect them from injury as muscles contract and relax. The dystrophin gene is so large, it accounts for about one-tenth of one percent of the entire length of the genome - more than 3 feet long on the HudsonAlpha genome walk.
One copy of the SHOX gene is located on each of the sex chromosomes (the X and Y chromosomes) in an area called the pseudoautosomal region. Although many genes are unique to the X or Y chromosome, genes in the pseudoautosomal region are present on both chromosomes. As a result, women (who have two X chromosomes) and men (who have one X and one Y chromosome) each have two functional copies of the SHOX gene in each cell. 
The CFH protein is part of the complement system - a group of proteins that work together to destroy foreign invaders (such as bacteria and viruses), trigger inflammation, and remove debris from cells and tissues. The CFH protein helps regulate this system so it targets only unwanted materials and does not attack the body's healthy cells.
Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome affects many parts of the body, including a characteristic facial appearance, delayed growth and development, intellectual disability, and seizures. For unknown reasons, Wolf-Hirschhorn syndrome occurs in about twice as many females as males.
This gene is part of a region that has been duplicated, so there are two complete copies in the genome. Interestingly, mutations in the copy closer to the telomere are associated with spinal muscular atrophy, while mutations in the other copy are not. HudsonAlpha faculty scientists Jane Grimwood and Jeremy Schmutz were involved in detailed sequencing of the region around this gene.
There are two major forms (alleles) of this gene. The versions differ at three amino acids. "Tasters" experience a higher level of bitterness than "nontasters".
Mutations in this gene are associated with Brachial-Oto-Renal syndrome (BOR), characterized by abnormal development of the neck, eyes, ears and kidneys.  Other mutations are less severe and cause congenital cataracts, but no other symptoms. 
There are approximately 60 CYP genes in humans and the enzymes the encode account for 70-80% of enzymes involved in drug  metabolism (breakdown). Variants in these genes determine how quickly the drugs are metabolized. If the drug is broken down slowly, it stays active in the body longer and less is needed to get the desired effect. If however, it is metabolized quickly, a higher does might be needed.
Hearing requires the conversion of sound waves to electrical nerve impulses. This conversion involves many processes, including maintaining the proper level of potassium ions in the inner ear. Some studies indicate that channels made with these connexins help to maintain the correct level of potassium ions. Other research suggests that the connexins are required for the maturation of certain cells in the cochlea. 
Prader-Willi affects many parts of the body. Affected infants have weak muscle tone and feeding difficulties. In childhood, an insatiable appetite appears, which leads to chronic overeating, and obesity. People with Prader-Willi syndrome typically have mild to moderate intellectual impairment and learning disabilities. Angelman syndrome primarily affects the nervous system. Characteristic features include developmental delay, intellectual disability, severe speech impairment, recurrent seizures and problems with movement and balance.
Mutations in this gene lead to Pompe disease, a toxic buildup of glycogen that damages cells and tissues. Researchers have identified three types of Pompe disease, which differ in severity and the age at which they appear. All three types are inherited in an autosomal recessive manner.
Mutations in the LDLR gene are associated with an autosomal dominant inherited form of high cholesterol called familial hyperchlesterolemia.  As the excess cholesterol circulates through the bloodstream, it is abnormally in tissues such as the skin, tendons, and those arteries that supply blood to the heart. A buildup of cholesterol in the walls of coronary arteries greatly increases a person's risk of having a heart attack.
Mutations in the GSS gene lead to glutathione synthetase deficiency, a rare autosomal recessive disorder.
The most common feature of Turner syndrome is short stature. An early loss of ovarian function is also very common. Many affected girls do not undergo puberty unless they are treated with the hormone estrogen. About 30 percent of people with Turner syndrome have extra folds of skin on the neck, a low hairline at the back of the neck, puffiness or swelling of the hands and feet, skeletal abnormalities, and/or kidney problems. Up to half of individuals are born with a heart defect. Most girls and women with Turner syndrome have normal intelligence. Developmental delays, nonverbal learning disabilities, and behavioral problems are possible, although these characteristics vary among affected individuals. 
Phototransduction is the process by which light entering the eye is converted into electrical signals that are transmitted to the brain. Phototransduction forms potentially toxic substances, some of which are removed by the ABCA4 protein.
More than 130 mutations in the FOXL2 gene have been associated with eyelid malformations and premature ovarian failure, leading to subfertility or infertility. 
In most types of cells, the proteins that maintain telomere length are undetectable or present at very low levels. High levels are present in cells that divide rapidly, such as those that line the lungs and gastrointestinal tract, are found in bone marrow, and are part of the developing fetus. These proteins are also abnormally active in cancer cells, which grow and divide without control or order.
The PLAGL1 protein also controls a protein called PACAP1, which stimulates insulin secretion by beta cells in the pancreas. Too much PLAGL1 causes short-term diabetes in infants possibly by impacting beta cells regulated by PACAP1.
The leptin hormone acts on a part of the brain called the hypothalamus. It sends a signal to the brain that the body has had enough to eat and is feeling full.
Chromosome inversions like this one involve the centromere and are known as pericentric inversions. If the centromere is not part of inverted region, it is called a paracentric inversion. 
Many of the genes in this region are imprinted, meaning they are active only on the copy inherited from a specific parent. Some genes are active only on the paternal copy. Others, such as the CDKN1C gene are only expressed on the copy inherited from the mother.
Phenylalanine is found in all proteins and in some artificial sweeteners. Individuals with PKU are unable to break down phenylalanine. As a result, it can build up to toxic levels in the blood and other tissues. Because nerve cells in the brain are particularly sensitive to phenylalanine levels, excessive amounts can cause brain damage.
Individuals with trisomy 13 often have heart defects, brain or spinal cord abnormalities, very small or poorly developed eyes, extra fingers and/or toes, an opening in the lip (a cleft lip) with or without an opening in the roof of the mouth (a cleft palate), and weak muscle tone. Many infants with trisomy 13 die within their first days or weeks of life. Only five percent to 10 percent of children with this condition live past their first year.
Mutations in three genes have been positively linked to early onset Alzheimer's disease: Presenillin 1, Presenillin 2 and APP.
Mutations in this gene cause Diamond-Blackfan anemia (DBA), a disorder of the bone marrow. The major function of bone marrow is to produce new blood cells. In Diamond-Blackfan anemia, the bone marrow fails to make enough red blood cells, which carry oxygen to the body's tissues. Studies indicate that the shortage of functioning ribosomal protein may increase the self-destruction of blood-forming cells in the bone marrow. The resulting shortage of red blood cells (anemia) usually becomes apparent during the first year of life. Symptoms of anemia include fatigue, weakness, and an abnormally pale appearance. HudsonAlpha faculty scientists Sara Cooper and Greg Barsh have worked with this gene in yeast, mice and human cells.
Many pain relievers such as morphine and codeine work through a pathway that includes this gene. DNA sequences changes in KCNJ6 influence the dosage required to be effective for patients.
Coagulation factor IX is made in the liver. Unless an injury occurs that damages blood vessels, the protein remains in an inactive form in the blood. In response to injury, coagulation factor IX is activated by another coagulation factor called factor XIa. The active protein interacts with other molecules and sets off a chain of additional chemical reactions to form a blood clot.
The Duffy antigen is a protein that sits on the surface of red blood cells. Variation in the DARC gene results in five different blood types: Fy-a, Fy-b, Fy-o, Fy-x and Fy-y.
This gene is a member of the paired box (PAX) family of transcription factors. The nine PAX genes play a critical role in the formation of tissues and organs during embryonic development.
Researchers believe CCR5 normally functions to help white blood cells develop and respond to infection. A number of experimental drugs are being tested to interfere with the interaction between CCR5 and the HIV virus.
The albumin protein makes up about half of all protein in the liquid component of human blood. It binds and carries steroids, fatty acids, hormones and zinc.
On average, the body absorbs about 10% of the total iron found in the food we eat.
Mutations in this gene cause hereditary spherocytosis. The lack of the ankyrin protein disrupts the structure and flexibility of the red blood cell membrane, leading to misshapen cells called spherocytes. These are removed from the blood and taken to the spleen for destruction. The shortage of red blood cells and the abundance of cells in the spleen cause the symptoms of the disease.
Blood is classified into different groups according to the presence or absence of molecules called antigens on the surface of every red blood cell in a person's body. Variation (polymorphisms) within the blood group genes produces the different antigens for a particular blood group protein. Small changes in the DNA sequence of the ABO gene give rise to the A, B, and O blood types.
Hemoglobin normally consists of four protein subunits: two subunits of beta-globin and two subunits of another protein called alpha-globin. Each subunit carries an iron-containing molecule called heme. Heme molecules allow the red blood cells to pick up oxygen in the lungs and deliver it throughout the body. 
The enzyme encoded by this gene is involved in the conversion of tyrosine to melanin.  Mutations in this gene result in oculocutaneous albinism. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Greg Barsh identified DNA changes in this gene that are associated with normal variations in human skin color.
Mutations in this gene can cause von Willebrand's disease, an autosomal dominant disease characterized by difficulty clotting and prolonged bleeding. 
Mutations in this gene lead to a type of oculocutaneous albinism, a form of albinism where individuals often have light yellow, blond, or light brown hair, creamy white skin, light-colored eyes, and problems with vision. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Greg Barsh identified this gene as a cause of variation among human skin color.
The sequence differences in this gene and their impact on pigmentation levels accounts for about one-third of the loss in pigment that led to white skin. This DNA change is estimated to have occurred between 20,000 and 50,000 years ago. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Greg Barsh identified this gene as a cause of variation among human skin color.
Hemoglobin normally consists of four protein subunits: two subunits of alpha-globin and two subunits of another protein called beta-globin. Oxygen attached to hemoglobin gives blood its bright red color.
The melanocortin 1 receptor controls which type of melanin is produced by melanocytes, eumelanin or pheomelanin. The relative amounts of these two pigments help determine the color of a person's hair and skin. Mostly eumelanin leads to brown or black hair and dark skin that tans easily. Mostly pheomelanin is associated with red or blond hair, freckles, and light-colored skin that tans poorly. HudsonAlpha physician-scientist Greg Barsh identified and described the version of this gene present in dogs.
Coagulation factor VIII is primarily made in the liver and circulates in the bloodstream in an inactive form, bound to another molecule called von Willebrand factor. In response to injury, factor VIII separates from von Willebrand factor and interacts with coagulation factor IX. This begins a chain of additional chemical reactions that form a blood clot.
The transport of chloride ions helps control the movement of water in tissues, which is necessary to produce thin, freely flowing mucus. Disease-causing mutations in the CFTR gene hinder chloride and water transport. As a result, cells lining the lungs, pancreas, and other organs produce thick and sticky mucus. This abnormal mucus obstructs the airways and glands, leading to the characteristic signs and symptoms of cystic fibrosis.
KCNQ1 protein channels transport potassium ions out of cells. In the inner ear, these channels help maintain the proper ion balance needed for normal hearing. In the heart, the channels are involved in recharging the cardiac muscle after each heartbeat to maintain a regular rhythm.
Mutations in the ADA gene lead to a buildup of toxic molecules. These prevent DNA synthesis, meaning cells are unable to divide. Because developing T and B cells for the immune system are some of the most actively dividing cells in the newborn, they are heavily impacted by this condition, leading to the immune system deficiencies.
This region of MiRNAs seems to be important in the survival and growth of cells. Overactivity of these MiRNAs has been linked to lymphoma and solid tumors. 
Part of the IGH@ region includes more than 50 different DNA segments that can be combined in a number of different ways. In the bone marrow, each developing B cell randomly selects and combines a few of these segment, creating a unique DNA sequence that lets the cell recognize one specific antigen (like a bacteria or pollen). The multiple combinations of segments means the body can recognize hundreds of thousands of antigens, leading to a strong immune system. HudsonAlpha faculty scientist Jian Han is studying this gene region to explore the diversity in the human immune system and its impact on health.
Tay-Sachs disease is inherited as an autosomal recessive disorder. It is very rare in the general population. The genetic mutations that cause this disease are more common in people of Ashkenazi (eastern and central European) Jewish heritage than in those with other backgrounds. The mutations responsible for this disease are also more common in certain French-Canadian communities of Quebec, the Old Order Amish community in Pennsylvania, and the Cajun population of Louisiana.
The enzyme produced by this gene plays a role in processing amino acids, the building blocks of proteins. Specifically, the enzyme is important in the multistep conversion of the amino acid homocysteine into another amino acid, methionine. 
This is the human homolog (a nearly identical gene found in a different species) to an gene found in E. coli bacteria. The protein made by this gene helps repair mismatches in DNA that occurred during replication.
DNA is very tightly condensed and packed inside cells. Before a gene can be activated to produce protein, the DNA around that gene needs to be relaxed. Then, the activation enzymes can bind the gene and produce the mRNA transcript. The PBRM1 protein is involved in this process of packing, relaxing and repacking of DNA.
APC mutations inherited from parent to child account for less than 1% of all colon cancers. However, spontaneous APC mutations have been found in more than 80% of all colorectal cancers.
Is it estimated that this protein regulates the activity of up to 15% of all genes. Many of these genes are involved in either cell division or cell growth.
The Patched-1 protein works together with a protein called Sonic Hedgehog. If Sonic Hedgehog is absent, Patched-1 blocks cells from growing and dividing. When Sonic Hedgehog is present, Patched-1 lifts the block.HudsonAlpha director Rick Myers was part of a team that identified mutations in this gene as a cause of nevoid basal cell carcinoma syndrome.
This protein is thought to be essential for the normal development of several kinds of nerve cells, including nerves in the intestine and the portion of the nervous system that controls involuntary body functions such as heart rate. The RET protein is also necessary for normal kidney development.
In cancer, most KRAS mutations occur in a single body cell rather than being inherited from a parent. Inherited KRAS mutations are rare and do not lead to cancer, but result in a disorder called Noonan syndrome. During embryonic development, the continually signaling KRAS protein disrupts normal cellular development and tissue formation, leading to short stature, heart defects, skeletal abnormalities and intellectual impairment.
The RB protein is a negative cell cycle regulator and was the first tumor supressor gene identified by scientists.
If the DNA can be repaired, tumor protein p53 activates other genes to fix the damage. If the DNA cannot be repaired, this protein prevents the cell from dividing and signals it to undergo apoptosis. This process prevents cells with mutated or damaged DNA from dividing, which helps prevent the development of tumors.
Amplification (multiple copies) of the ERBB2 gene has been reported not only in breast cancer, but in ovarian, brain, stomach, and lung cancers. The anti-cancer drug Herceptin, binds this protein, blocking the "growth" signal.
More than 40% of inherited breast cancer and more than 80% of inherited breast and ovarian cancers are associated with mutations in this gene.
By controlling gene activity and regulating cell division rate, the SMAD4 protein serves both as a transcription factor and as a tumor suppressor. Transcription factors help control the activity of particular genes, and tumor suppressors keep cells from growing and dividing too fast or in an uncontrolled way.
Under normal conditions, the ABL1 protein helps regulate cell division and is very tightly controlled by other molecules. The translocation event produces an abnormal "fusion" protein that is continuously active. This speeds up the frequency of cell division and leads to the out of control cell growth found in the cancer.
More than 800 mutations have been identified in the BRCA2 gene. Many BRCA2 mutations are small insertions or deletions in the gene. Most disrupt protein production, resulting in an abnormally small, nonfunctional BRCA2 protein. Researchers believe that the defective BRCA2 protein is unable to help repair damaged DNA or fix mutations that occur in other genes. As these defects accumulate, cells may begin to grow and divide uncontrollably and form a tumor.
There are at least three slightly different versions (alleles) of the APOE gene. The major alleles are called e2, e3, and e4. The most common allele is e3, which is found in more than half of the general population. Although the process is not understood, the e4 version increases an individual's risk for developing late-onset Alzheimer's disease. People who inherit one copy of the APOE e4 allele have an increased chance of developing the disease; those who inherit two copies of the allele are at even greater risk.
